# MS 782/3

[F 52]

you ~~memory only for~~ ^only remember^ benefits? Let ~~it~~ ^them^ perish! If after the \
day's lessons, in the ~~starlit~~ ^evening^ solitude ~~of the evening~~, some \
strange tremor of joy ~~ever passed over~~ ^shook^ your heart, remember \
that - but not gratitude. ~~If there was someone passing by, \
a snatch of whole song got tangled among your tents?, or some \
curve of whose robe broke upon your studies with a disturbance of \
delight, remember that in the leisure of~~ ^If, as \
someone passed, a snatch of song got tangled among your texts \
or the swing of a robe fluttered your studies with delight; \
remember that when at leisure in^ your ~~p~~^P^aradise. ^What^ ~~on~~ \
benefit ^only^, - and ~~not~~ ^niether^ beauty nor love nor ~~aught else?~~ ^...^

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~There are~~ ^Some^ things ~~that are not for two words~~ ^are beyond the power of words^. 

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yes, yes, I know. My love has ~~pierced to the bottom~~ \
~~the mystery of your heart. And this has made~~ ^sounded your heart's deepest and makes me bold to speak \
~~to you~~ in defiance of your ~~reticence~~ ^reserve^. Never leave me, remain \
~~here~~ - ^fame gives no happiness. Friend, you cannot now escape for your secret is mine.^ ~~for happiness is not in fame. You can no longer~~ \
~~escape me, friend, for I know your secret.~~ fame gives no happiness. Friend, you \
cannot now escape^,^ for your secret is mine^!^

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No, no, Devayani -

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~You say~~ ^How^ 'No?' Do not lie to me! ~~Love has its~~ ^Love's insight is^ ^eyes^ ^are^ divine. \
~~^in^sight~~. Day after day, ~~through some slight~~ ^in^ in raising ~~of~~ your \
head, ^in a^ glance ~~of your eyes, movements~~ ^in the motion^ of your hands, your ~~heart~~ ^love^ \
spoke ~~to me~~ as the sea speaks through its waves. ~~A~~ ^On a^ sudden \
~~sound of~~ my voice ~~has often~~ ^would^ sen~~t~~^d^ your heart quivering ~~in all~~ ^through^ \
your limbs, - ~~and~~ have I never ~~felt its~~ ^witnessed^ it? I know you, and \ therefore you are my captive for ever. The very king of your \
Gods shall not ~~be able to~~ sever this bond. 

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~But w~~ ^W^as it for this, Devayani, that I toiled^,^ ~~these years~~ \
away from ~~my~~ home and kindred ~~?~~ ^,^ ^all these years?^

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Why not? Is only knowledge precious ~~in this world~~ ^?^ ~~and~~ ^is^ \
love cheap? ~~Do not lose~~ ^Lay hold on^ this moment. Have the courage \
to ~~say~~ ^own^ that a woman's heart is worth all ^as much penance as men ~~?~~
undergo^ ~~the penance a man does~~ \
^for the sake of power, knowledge, or reputation.^

4.
