# MS 782/3

[F 123]

Ritvik. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Come down ~~to us~~, King! 

Shades. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stop ~~for~~ a few moments among us. The earth's tears still \
cling about you ~~r presence~~ like ~~the~~ dew on ~~the~~ freshly culled \
flowers. You have brought with you the mingled odour^s^ of ~~the~~ \
meadow~~s~~ and forest~~s~~, ^reminiscence^ of children, women, and comrades, ~~and~~ \
^something too^ of the ineffable music of the seasons. 
^thus: and forest, reminiscence of children, women, and comrades, something \
too of the ineffable music of the seasons.^

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Master, why are you doomed to live in this muffled ^stagnant^ world? \
~~of stagnation?~~ 

Ritvik. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I offered ^up^ your son ~~to~~ ^in^ the sacrificial fire^,^ ~~and~~ that sin \
has ~~blotted~~ ^lodged^ my soul in~~to~~ this obscurity.

Shades. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;King, ~~we implore you,~~ tell us that story, ^we implore you^; For ~~annals~~ ^the recital^ of \
crime ^can^ still bring life's fire into our torpor. 

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I was named Somaka, the King of Videha. After ^sacrificing at innumerable shrines weary year on year^ weary \
~~years of sacrifice at unnumerable shrines, I had~~ ^a son^ ~~born~~ ^was^ \
^born^ to my house in my old age, love for whom, like a sudden \
untimely flood, swept ^consideration for everything^ ~~away all~~ else from my life. He hid me \
completely, as a lotus hides its stem. The neglected duties \
of a king ~~grew large~~ piled up ^in^ shame before my throne. One \
day, ~~while~~ in my audience hall, I heard my child ~~'s~~ cry from his \
mother's room, and instantly rushed away, ~~leaving~~ ^vacating^ my throne. 

Ritvik. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just ~~at that time~~ ^then, it chanced^, I entered ~~the hall~~ to give him my daily \
benediction, ~~when~~ in ~~his~~ blind haste he brushed me aside ^and^ \
enkindl~~ing~~^ed^ my anger. ~~I asked him,~~ When ^later^ he came back, shame- \
faced^ly^, ^I asked him^, - "~~Tell me,~~ King, what desperate alarm ~~was there which~~ \
could draw you ~~in~~ ^at^ the ~~middle of the busy~~ ^busiest hour of the^ day ~~in~~to the woman's \
apartments^;^ ~~driving you from~~ ^so as to desert^ your dignity and dut~~ies~~^y^ ~~,~~ ^-^ ~~from~~ \
Ambassadors come from friendly courts, ~~from~~ the aggrieved ~~asking~~ ^who ask^

2.
