# MS 782/3

[F 250]

^21^

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Our Lane is torturous, as if, ages ago, she started in \
quest of her goal, vacillated right and left, and remained \
bewildered for ever. \
[ no break only new paragraph \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Above in the air, between her buildings, hangs like a \
ribbon a strip torn out of space: she calls it her sister \
of the blue town. \
[ only new para \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She sees the sun only for a few moments at mid-day ~~:~~ ^,^ ~~she~~ \
and asks herself in wise doubt ~~, -~~ "Is it real?" \
[ only new para graph \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In June rain sometimes shades her band of daylight as \
with pencil hatchings. The path grows slippery ^with mud, and umbrellas collide.^ ~~and mud laden~~ \
Sudden jets of water from spouts overhead splash on her \
startled pavement. In her dismay, she takes it for the jest \
of an unmannerly scheme of creation. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The spring breeze, gone astray in her coil of contortions, \
stumbles like a drunken vagabond against angle and corner, \
filling the dusty air with scraps of paper and rag. "What \
fury of foolishness! Are the Gods gone mad?" she exclaims in \
indignation. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But the daily refuse from the houses on both sides - \
scales of fish mixed with ashes, ~~peelings of~~ vegetable~~s~~ ^peelings^, rotten \
fruit and dead rats - never rouse her to question "Why should \
these things be?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;She accepts every stone of her paving. But from between \
their chinks sometimes a blade of grass peeps up. That
