# MS 782/3

[F 254]

^23^

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the depths of the forest the ascetic practised \
penance ^with fast-closed eyes^; he intended to deserve paradise. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But the girl who gathered twigs brought him fruits in \
her skirt^,^ and water from the stream in cups made of leaves. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The days went on^,^ and his penance grew harsher till the \
fruits remained untasted, the water untouched^:^ and the girl \
who gathered twigs was sad. 
[break] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Lord of Paradise heard that a man had dared to \
aspire to be as the Gods. Time after time he had fought the \
Titans, who were his peers, and kept them out of his kingdom; \
yet he feared a man whose power was that of suffering. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But he knew the ways of mortals, and he planned a tempta- \
tion to lure this creature of dust away from his adventure. \
[break] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A breath from Paradise kissed the limbs of the girl who \
gathered twigs, and her youth ached with a sudden rapture \
of beauty and her thoughts hummed like the bees of a rifled \
hive. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The time came when the ascetic should leave the forest \
for a mountain cave^,^ to complete the rigour of his penance. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When he opened his eyes in order to start on this journey^,^ \
the girl appeared to him like a verse familiar, yet forgotten, \
and that an added melody made strange. The ascetic rose from \
his seat and told her that it was time he left the forest.
