-2-

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Wretch, you forget that ~~the~~ ^both^ Pandavas and Kauravas have \
the same forefathers. 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It was difficult to forget that, and therefore our in- \
equalities rankled in my heart. At midnight the moon is never \
jealous of the noonday sun. But the struggle to share ~~the~~^one^ \
horizon between both orbs can[close gap]not last forever. Thank heaven, \
that struggle is over^,^ and we have at last won solitude in \
glory.

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The mean jealousy! 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jealousy is never mean - it is in the essence of great- \
ness. Grass can grow in crowded amity, not giant trees. Stars \
live in clusters, but the sun and moon are lonely in their \
splendour. The pale moon of the Pandavas sets behind the \
forest shadows ^,^ leaving the new-risen sun of the Kaurava to \
rejoice. 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But right has been defeated. 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Right for ~~the~~ rulers is not what is right in the eyes of \
the people. The people thrive by comradeship^:^ but for a king,

103
# MS 782/3

[F 217]

-3-

equals are enemies. They are obstacles ahead, they are terrors \
from behind. There is no place for brothers or friends in a \
king's polity; its one solid foundation is conquest. 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I refuse to call a conquest what was won by fraud in \
gambling.

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A man is not shamed by refusing to challenge a tiger on \
equal terms with teeth and nails. Our weapons are those proper \
for success, not for suicide. Father, I am proud of
the result \
and disdain regret for the means. 

Dhritarshtra. \
But justice - - 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Fools alone dream of justice ~~;~~ ^-^ success is not yet theirs: \
but those born to rule rely on power, merciless and unhampered \
with scruples. 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Your success will bring down on you a loud and angry flood \
of detraction. 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The people will take amazingly little time to learn that \
Duryodhana is king and has power to crush calumny
under foot.
