# MS 782/3

[F 88]

[pencil] THE MOTHER'S PRAYER

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Prince Duryodhana, the son of the blind Kaurava King \
Dhritarashtra and Queen Gandhari, has played with his \
cousins the Pandava Kings for their kingdom and won it \
by fraud. 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You have compassed your end. [end of pencil]

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~I have attained s~~^S^uccess is mine! 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Are you happy?

Duryodhana. \
I am victorious. 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I ask you again, what happiness ~~had~~ ^have^ you in ~~gaining an~~ ^winning the^ \
undivided kingdom? 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[pencil] Sire, a Kshatriya thirsts not after happiness but victory, that \
fiery wine ~~brewed~~ ^pressed^ from seething jealousy. Wretchedly happy \
we were^,^ like those inglorious stains that lie idly on the breast of \
the moon, when we lived in peace under the friendly dominance \
of our cousins. Then these Pandavas milked the world of its \
wealth and allowed us a share in brotherly tolerance, now, that \
they own defeat and expect banishment, I am no longer happy but \
exultant. [end of pencil]

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Wretch, you forget that the Pandavas and Kauravas have \
the same forefathers. 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It was difficult to forget that, and therefore our \
inequalities rankled ~~all the more~~ in my heart. The moon of 

1.
