# MS 782/3

[F 86]

32. 

I. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~at the fair~~ ~~the~~ ^A^ painter was selling pictures ^at the fair^; ~~when~~^,^ \
~~there ? boy~~ followed by servants ^there passed^ ~~This was~~ the son of \
~~the~~ ^a^ minister who in youth had cheated th~~e~~^is^ painter's father \
~~till he~~ ^so that he had^ died of a broken heart. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The boy lingered ~~among~~ ^before^ the pict~~rues~~^ures^ and chose one for \
himself. The painter turned it upside down and said he \
would not sell it. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~This refusal sickened the boy's heartand the~~ ^After this the boy pined heart-sick till his^ father \
~~himself~~ came and offered a large price. But the painter \
kept the picture ~~hung~~ ^unsold^ on his shop-wall ~~unsold~~ and grimly \
sat before it saying to himself, "This is my revenge".

II. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~The man would paint every morning a new picture of his~~ ^The sole form this painter's worship took was to trace^ \
~~god, for this was his only form of worship~~ ^an image of his god every morning^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~But~~ ^And now^ ~~daily~~ he felt ~~the~~ ^these^ pictures grow~~ing~~ ~~?~~ ^more^ different ^daily^ \
from those he ^used to^ paint~~ed before~~. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;^This^ ~~It~~ troubled him and he ~~questioned himself~~ ^sought^ in vain to \
~~know what was the nature of thesedifference and its reason,~~ ^for an explanation^ \
till one day he started up from ~~his~~ work in horror ~~and saw~~ \
~~that~~ the eyes ~~of his god's picture~~ ^of the god he had just drawn,^ were those of the minister \
and ~~also the~~ ^so were the^ lips. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He tore up the picture ~~and said~~ ^crying^, "My revenge ~~comes back~~ ^has returned^ \
~~to me~~ ^on my head^".
