# MS 782/3

[F 53]

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~You know~~ I gave my solemn promise to the Gods that I would \
bring ~~to~~ them ~~the~~ ^this^ lore of deathless life. 

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But is it true ~~that~~ you had eyes for nothing ~~else besides~~ ^save^ your books? That you never ~~left them in neglect, in the midst~~ ^broke off^ \
~~of~~ your studies to pay me homage with flowers, ~~and~~ never ^lay in^ \
~~eagerly sought the~~ ^wait for a^ chance, ~~in the evening~~ ^of an evening^, to help me ~~to sprinkle~~ \
water ~~on~~ my flower-beds? What made you sit by me on the grass \
and sing ~~to me the~~ songs you brought ^hither^ from the assembly of ^the^ stars, \
~~when in the evening the~~ ^while^ darkness ~~descended~~ ^stooped^ ~~upon~~ ^over^ the river bank \
~~like~~ ^as^ love droop~~ing~~^s^ over its own sad silence? Were these parts \
of a cruel ~~intrigue conspired about~~ ^conspiracy plotted^ in your paradise? Was ~~it~~ ^all^ \
for the sake of ~~finding~~ access to my father's heart, - and ~~when~~ \
~~you~~ ^after^ succe~~eded~~^ss^ ~~must~~ ^were^ you ~~? the time of~~ depart~~ure~~^ing^ ^to^ throw some \
cheap ~~coins of~~ gratitude ~~at~~ ^like small coins to^ the deluded doorkeeper? 

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Is it of any use~~, ^What profit were there^, proud
woman, ~~to know~~ ^in knowing^ the truth? If ~~it~~ ^I^ \
~~were~~ ^did^ wrong ~~for me~~ to ~~have~~ serve~~d~~ you with a passionate devotion \
~~which I~~ cherished in secret, I have had ample punishment. ~~But~~ \
~~?~~ ^This is no^ time ~~is not now~~ to ~~answer~~ ^question^ whether my love ~~is~~  ^be^ true or not^;^ \
~~for I have~~ my life's work ~~before~~ ^awaits^ me. ~~If, from now, I must~~ ^Though my^ \
~~bear in~~ heart ^must henceforth enclose^ a red flame ~~of hunger~~ vainly ~~trying~~ ^striving^ to devour \
emptiness, still I must go back to that Paradise which will \
nevermore be ~~a~~ paradise to me. ~~To~~ ^I owe^ the Gods ~~I must give~~ a new \
divinity ~~with my~~ hard-won ~~knowledge~~ ^by my studies^ before I may think of ~~my own~~ \
happiness. Forgive me, Devayani, and know that my ~~own~~ \
suffering is doubled by the pain ~~that~~ ^I^ unwillingly ~~I~~ inflict on \
you.

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Forgiveness! You have ~~made~~ ^angered^ my ~~woman's~~ heart ^till it is^ hard ~~,~~ and \
burning ^with anger^ like a thunder bolt! You can go back to \
your work and your glory, but what is left for me? ~~A thorn~~ \
~~bed of memory~~ ^Memory is a bed of thorns^ and ~~a~~ secret shame ~~ever~~ ^will^  gnaw~~ing~~ at the root^s^ of \
my ~~live~~ ^life^. You came like a wayfarer, ~~sitting~~ ^sat^ through the sunny \
hours in the shade of my ~~life's~~ garden, and to while ^time^ away ~~time~~ \
you plucked all its flowers nd wove them into a chain. And \
~~when the time for~~ ^now,^ parting, ~~came~~, you snap~~ped~~ the thread and let \
the flowers drop on the dust! ~~Let me utter this cursed that~~ ^Accursed be that^

5. \
[illegible pencil notes]
