# MS 782/3

[F 266]

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Every day she meets [underline] him at the well^,^ and every day he \
repeats the same request^,^ till at last she yiel ~~ded~~ ^s^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~The~~ ^Our^ man paint~~ed~~^s^ the pitcher with curious colours in a \
mysterious maze of lines. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The girl t~~ook~~^akes^ it up, turn~~ed~~^s^ it round^,?^ and ask~~ed~~^s^ "What \
does it mean?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"It has no meaning," he answer~~ed~~^s^.
[line]  \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The girl carrie~~d~~^s^ the pitcher home. She h~~e~~^o^ld^s^ it up in \
different  lights and trie~~d~~^s^ to con its mystery. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At night she ~~left~~ ^leaves^ her bed, light~~ed~~^s^ ^a^ lamp and gaze~~d~~^s^at it \
from all points of view. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This is the first time she ha~~d~~^s^ met with something with \
no meaning. 
[line] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On the next day, the man ~~wa~~^i^s again near the well. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The girl ask~~ed~~^s^ "What do you want?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"To do more work for you". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"What work^?^" she enquir~~ed~~^s^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Allow me to weave coloured strands into a ribbon to bind \
your hair ~~"~~ .^"^ \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Is there any need?" she ask~~ed~~^s^. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"None whatever ~~?~~" said he. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The ribbon ~~wa~~^i^s made^,^ and thenceforward she spen~~t~~^ds^ a great \
deal of time over her hair.
