# MS 782/3

[F 118]

^her youth echoed with its beauty^

III.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A ~~breeze~~ ^breath^ from Paradise kissed the ~~young~~ limbs of the \
girl who gathered twigs, and her youth ~~seemed to~~ ache^d^ with \
a sudden rapture ~~of beauty~~ ^of beauty^ and her thoughts hummed like the \
bees of a ~~?~~ ^rifled^ hive. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~This was when t~~ ^T^he time ~~came for~~ ^came when^ the ascetic ~~? to~~ ^should leave the forest^ \
~~the~~ ^for a^ mountain cave ~~add the final hardness to his task~~ ^to complete the rigour of his penance^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;^When he opened^ his eyes ^in order to start on this journey^ the girl appeared to him like \
a verse familiar ~~and~~ yet forgotten, ~~with~~ ^and that^ an added melody \
~~that was~~ ^made^ strange. The ascetic rose from his seat and told \
her that ~~the~~ ^it was^ time ~~was for him to leave~~ ^he left^ the forest.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"But why rob me of my chance to serve you?" ^she^ asked ~~the~~ \
~~girl~~ with tears in her eyes. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Who h~~ ^H^e sat down ~~and~~ ^again^^,^ thought for long^,^ and remained on \
~~his seat~~ ^where he was^. 

IIII.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;That night ~~the girl could not sleep for pain~~ ^remorse kept the girl awake^. She \
began to dread her power and hate her ~~own~~ triumph though \
her mind tossed on the waves of ~~a~~ turbulent delight. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the morning she came and saluted the ascetic and \
asked ~~for~~ his blessing~~s~~^,^ saying ~~that~~ she must ~~go~~ ^leave him^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He gazed on her face in silence^,^ ~~and then~~ ^then^ said, "Go, \
and ~~let~~ ^may^ your wish be fulfilled". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For years he sat alone till ~~he came to the end of his~~ \
^his^ penance ^was complete^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Lord of the Immortals came down to ~~say to~~ ^tell^ him \
that he had won ~~his right to~~ Paradise. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"~~?~~ I no longer need it" said he. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The god asked him what greater reward he desired. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"I want the girl who gathers twigs," ~~said the ?~~
