#MS 782/3

[F 218]

-4-

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Calumny dies of weariness dancing on ~~the~~ tongue-tips. Do \
not drive it into the heart to gather strength. 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Unuttered defamation does not touch a king's dignity. I \
care not if love is refused us, but insolence shall not be \
borne. Love depends upon the will of the giver, and the \
poorest of the poor can indulge in such generosity. Let them \
squander it on their pet cats, tame dogs, and our good cousins ~~,~~ \
the Panda~~n~~^v^as. I shall never envy them. Fear is the tribute I \
claim for my royal throne. Father, only too leniently you \
lent your ear to those who slanderered your sons ^:-^ but if you \
intend still to allow those pious friends of yours to revel in \
shrill denunciation at the expense of your children, let us \
exchange our kingdom for the exile of our cousins^,^ and go to \
the wilderness^,^ where happily friends are never cheap! 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Could the pious warnings of my friends lessen my love \
for my sons^,^ then we might be saved. But I have dipped my \
hands in the mire of your infamy and lost my sense of goodness. \
For your sakes I have heedlessly set fire to the
ancient forest \
of our royal lineage - so dire is my love. Clasped breast to \
breast^,^ we^,^ like a double meteor, are blindly plunging into \
ruin. Therefore ~~,~~ doubt not my love; relax not your embrace \
till the brink of annihilation be reached. Beat your drums \
of victory, life your banner of triumph. In this mad riot of
