# MS 782/3

[F 287]

KUNTI \
The  mother of Arjuna, thine opponent: \
But hate me not for that^!^ Well I recall \
That day, when in the lists at Hastina, \
Thou, boy, unknown, didst dare defy Arjuna: \
So morning challenges night's brightest star! \
What wretched woman was it kissed thy limbs \
With looks as fond as lips if less courageous? \
She sat with the court ladies, screened behind \
Those gilded net-blinds. Ah^!^ and was she not \
The mother of Arjuna? 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Umpire of arms, \
A Brahmin then proclaimed 'None meanly born \
May challenge princes'. Speechless thou stoodst \
Like full charged thunder-cloud at sunset ~~flashing~~ \
~~With agony of wrath suppressed.~~ What woman, \
In silence, shook with the like shame and anger? \
The mother of Arjuna^!^ \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Blessed be he, \
Duryodhana, who well perceived thy worth \
And crowned thee, there and then, the King ^of^ Anga^!^ - \
Champion for the Kauravas! Wildered with joy \
~~Thereat~~ Adhiratha, the charioteer ~~??~~ ^on this^. \
Broke from the crowd. \
Instantly thou \
[over tape, written over in pencil] \
Wast laying at his feet that new won crown. \
The Pandaras and their friends jeered then and yet \
One heart, thronged round by those insulters, glowed - \
While thine heroic pride in meekness braved them^,-^ \
Glowed...and in whom? the mother of Arjuna! 

KARNA \
But what should bring thee here alone at nightfall, \
Mother of Kings? 

KUNTI \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I come to take thee..... 

KARNA \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Whither? 

KUNTI \
Home to this breast that thirsteth for my son. 

KARNA \
Where can the fortunate mother of five kings \
Find place for me, a paltry chieftain born \
Wretchedly, meanly bred?
