# MS 782/3

[F 45]

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"What is great?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mind remained silent. I pressed ~~?~~ for ^an^ answer. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In contempt and anger, Mind said, "Why ask about things \
that are not? Take notice of those that are hugely before \
you, - the struggle and the fight, the army and armaments, \
the bricks and mortar, and labourers without number". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I thought possibly Mind ~~was~~ ^is^ wise.

II. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Days passed. More wings were added to ~~the tower~~ ^his palace^ ~~and~~ ^- more^ \ 
~~more width to the land~~ ^lands to his domain.^ \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The season of rains came to an end. The dark clouds \
became white and thin, and in the rain-washed sky the sunny \
hours hovered like butterflies over an unseen flower. I was \
bewildered and asked everybody ~~whom~~ I met "~~w~~^W^hat ~~was~~ ^is^ that \
music in the breeze.^"^ \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Where~~ ^A tramp^ walked ~~a tramp in~~ the road whose dress was wild \
~~and~~ as his manner; ~~and~~ he said, ~~"It is~~ "Hark to the music of the ~~c~~^C^oming". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~I know not ?~~ ~~how I understood it, but I~~ ^I cannot tell why I was convinced but the words^ broke \
~~out saying~~ ^from me^ "We have not much longer to wait". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"It is ~~?~~ ^close at hand^", said the mad man. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I went to the office and boldly said to Mind, "Stop \
all work". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mind asked, "Have you any news?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Yes," I answered, "~~n~~^N^ews of the ~~c~~^C^oming." But I \
could not ~~make my answer~~ ^ex^plain.
