# MS 782/3

[F 249]

^20^

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Days were drawing as the winter ended^,^ and, in the \
sun, my dog played in his wild way with the pet deer. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The crows going to the market gathered by the fence, and \
laughed to see the love of these playmates struggle with \
languages so dissimil~~i~~ar. \
[break here] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The spring was in the air, and the young leaves fluttered \
like flames. A gleam danced in the deer's dark eyes when she \
started, bent her neck at the movement of her own shadow, or \
raised her ears to listen to some whisper in the wind. \
[only para graph here] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The message comes floating with the errant breeze, with \
the rustle and glimmer abroad in the April sky. It sings of \
the first ache of youth in the world, when the first flower \
broke ~~out~~ from ~~its~~ ^the^ bud, and love went forth seeking that \
which it knew not, leaving all it had known. \
[break here //] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And one afternoon, when among the amlak [underlined] trees the shadow \
grew grave and sweet with the furtive caress of light, the \
deer set off to run like a meteor in love with death. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It grew dark, and lamps were lighted in the house; the \
stars came out and night was upon the fields, but the deer \
never came back. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My dog ran up to me whining, questioning me with his \
piteous eyes which seemed to say, "I do not understand ~~"~~ ^!"^
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But who does ever understand?
