# MS 782/3

[F 256]

^24^

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They said that Kabir, the weaver, was favoured of God, \
and the crowd flocked round him for medicine and miracles. \
But he was troubled; his low birth had hitherto endowed him \
with a most precious obscurity to sweeten with songs and \
with the presence of his God. He prayed that it might be \
restored. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Envious of the repute of this outcast, the priests leagued \
themselves with a harlot to disgrace him. Kabir came to the \
market to sell cloths from his loom; when the woman grasped \
his hand, blaming him for being faithless, and followed him to \
his house, saying she would not be forsaken, Kabir said to \
himself ~~,~~ "God answers prayers in his own way". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Soon the woman felt a shiver of fear and fell on her knees \
and cried ~~,~~ "Save me from my sin!" To which he said ~~,~~ "Open your \
life to God's light ~~"~~ ^!"^ \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kabir worked at his loom and sang^,^ and his songs washed \
 the stains from that woman's heart^,^ and by way of return found \
 a home in her sweet voice. \
 [line] \
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One day the king, in a fit of caprice, sent a message \
 to Kabir to come and sing before him. The weaver shook his \
head: but the messenger dared not leave his door till his \
 master's errand was fulfilled. \
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The king and his courtiers started at the sight of Kabir \
 when he entered the hall. For he was not alone, the woman
