# MS 782/3

[F 49]

^19^ \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Young Kacha ~~of~~ ~~^had come^~~ ^came from^ Paradise ~~, came~~ to learn the secret of \
immortality ~~from the teacher of~~ ^of a Sage who taught^ the Titans ^and^ whose daughter \
Devayani f~~a~~^e^ll in love with him. ~~The following dialogue is \
imagined to have occurred at the time of their taking leave of \
each other.~~ 

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The time ~~is~~ ^has come^ for me to take leave, Devayani; my \
~~master's daughter, for my lessons are done~~ ^I have long sat^ at your father's feet ^but to day he completed his teaching.^ Graciously allow me to go back to the land of the Gods \
whence I came. 

Devayani \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You have^,^ ~~attained~~ ^as^ you~~r~~ desire^d^, ~~and~~ won th~~e~~^at^ rare \
knowledge coveted by ^the^ Gods, - but think ~~for a moment~~, ~~is there~~ \
~~nothing more to which you may aspire?~~ ^,do you aspire after nothing ~~?~~ further?^

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nothing.

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nothing at all! Dive ^in^to the bottom of your heart^;^ \
~~and see if there be not? some~~ ^does no^ timid wish ^lurk^ hide~~ing~~^e^ ~~itself in the~~ ^there fearful^ \
~~dark lest it may be stricken~~ ^lest it be blighted.^

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~My life's morning~~ ^For me the^ sun of fulfilment has ~~a~~risen, and \
the stars have faded in its light. I have ~~found~~ ^mastered^ the knowledge \
which gives life. 

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Then you must be the one happy being in ~~all~~ creation. \
Alas, now for the first time I feel what ~~a~~ torture ~~it was for~~ \
~~you to spend your days in the alien land though the best that \
we had was ^we^ offered to you.~~ 
^these days spent in an alien land have been to you though we \
offered you our best. 
1.
