# MS 782/3

[F 82]

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Father, it may be that I ~~am fallen from~~ ^have disgraced^ the rites of your \
house, but my honour is unsullied; ~~for~~ I loved him to whom \
I bore ~~my~~ son. I remember the night when I received two secret \
messages, one from you^,^ ~~and~~ one from my mother; ~~in which~~ you^rs^ \
said: 'I send you the knife ~~with which you must~~^;^ kill him,' \
~~and~~ my mother^'s^~~aid:~~ 'I send you the poison^;^ ~~with which to~~ end \
your life.' ~~If it h~~^H^ad ~~been~~ unholy force ~~which had brought~~ \
dishonour^ed^ ~~upon~~ me, ~~I would have done~~ your ^double^ bidding ^had been obeyed^. ~~But the ??~~ \
~~surrender of myself had only followed my love, - that love all \
the greater and purer because it overcame the inherited recall \
from the Mussulman which was in my blood.~~ 

^But my body ^was^ yielded only after love had given me [underlined] - love all the \
greater, all the purer in that it overcame the hereditary recoil \
of our blood from the Mussulman.^

Enter~~s~~ Rama, Ama's Mother. 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mother mine, I had ~~never~~ ^not^ hoped to see you again ~~in my life~~. \
Let me take ~~the~~ dust ~~of~~ ^from^ your feet. 

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Never~~ ~~t~~^T^ouch me ^not^ with impure hands. 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am as pure as ~~you are~~ yourself. 

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~But~~ ~~t~~^T^o whom have you surrendered your honour?

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To my husband. 

Rama. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Husband? A Mussulman the husband of a Brahmin woman? 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I do not merit contempt ~~from any, for~~ ^:^ I am proud to say \
~~that~~ I never despised my husband though a Mussulman. ~~And~~ ~~i~~^I^f \
~~there he a~~ paradise ~~for you to~~ ^will^ reward your devotion ~~for~~ ^to^ your \
husband, then the same paradise waits for your daughter \
who has been a^s^ true ^a^ wife.  

3.
