# MS 782/3

[F 253]

^22^ 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The house^,^ lingering on after its wealth has vanished^,^ \
stands by the wayside like a madman with a patched rag over \
his back.  [paragraph only] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Day after day scars it with spiteful scratches^,^ and rainy \
months leave their fantastic signatures on its bared bricks. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In a deserted upper room, one of a pair of doors has \
fallen from rusty hinges; and the other, widowed, bangs day \
and night to the fitful gusts. \
[ paragraph only \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One night the sound of women wailing came from that house. \
They mourned the death of the last son of the family, a boy \
of eighteen, who earned his living by playing the part of \
the heroine in a travelling theatre. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A few days more and the house became silent, and all the \
doors were locked. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Only on the north side in the upper room that desolate \
door would neither drop off to its rest not be shut, but swung \
to and fro in the wind like a self-torturing soul. \
[break here] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;After a time children's voices echo once more through \
that house. Over the balcony-rail women's clothes are hung \
in the sun, a bird whistles from a covered cage and a boy \
plays with his kite on the terrace. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A tenant has come to occupy a few rooms. He earns little \
and has many children. The tired mother beats them and they \
roll on the floor and shriek.
