# MS 782/3

[F 81]

~~away~~ ^far^ from ~~your~~ shamed kindred and ~~angry~~ ^all^ neighbours; bathe three \
times a day in ~~the~~ sacred ~~waters of the~~ Ganges and while reciting \
God's name ~~and~~ listen~~ing~~ to the last bell of evening worship ~~let~~ \
~~that~~ Death ^may^ look tenderly upon you, ~~like~~ ^as^ a father ~~up~~on his sleeping \
child, whose eyes are still wet with tears; ~~and~~ let him gently \
carry you into his own great silence as the Ganges carries a \
fallen flower ~~in~~ ^on^ its stream, washing ~~away its mud~~ ^every^ stain~~s~~ ~~and~~ ^away^ \
~~offering it to the sea~~ ^to render it, a fit offering, to the sea^. 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But my son -
 
 Vinayaka. \
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;^Again^, I ~~tell~~ ^bid^ you ~~again~~, ~~do~~ not ^to^ speak of him. ~~Come~~ ^Lay yourself^ once more \
 ~~to your~~ ^in a^ father's arms, my child, like a babe ~~newly born~~ ^fresh^ from the \
 womb of ~~the Mother~~ Oblivion, ^your second mother^. 
 
 Ama. \
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;^To me^ ~~T~~^t^he world has become a shadow ~~to me~~. Your words I ~~merely~~ \
 hear, but cannot take to heart. Leave me, father, leave me alone. \
 Do not try to bind me with ~~a~~ ^your^ love^;^ ^for its bands are^ red with my
husband's blood.

Vinayaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alas, ~~the dropped~~ ^no^ flower ~~n~~ever returns to ~~its parent branch~~ ^the parent branch it dropped from^. \
~~But, I ask~~ ~~h~~^H^ow can you call him ~~your~~ husband who forcibly ~~took~~ \
^snatched^ you from ~~the hands of~~ Jivaji, ^to whom you had been sacredly^ affianced \
~~rites~~? I shall never forget that night! ~~We sat~~ ~~i~~^I^n the \
wedding hall ^we sat^ anxiously expecting the bridegroom ~~every moment~~, \
for the auspicious ~~time~~ ^hour^ was ~~about to~~ ^dwindling away^ ~~pass~~, ~~~T~~ ^t^hen ~~there~~ ~~appeared~~ \
in the distance ^appeared^ the glare of torch~~lights~~^es^, and ^bridal^ strains ~~of wedding~~ \
~~music~~ came floating ~~in~~ ^up^ the air. We shouted for joy, ~~and~~ women \
blew their conchshells. Then a procession of palanquins \
entered ~~our~~ ^the^ courtyard, ~~and~~ ^but^ while we were asking ^"^where ~~was~~ ^is^ \
Jivaji^?^,^"^ armed men burst ~~out~~ ^out of the litters^ like aa storm and ~~took you away~~ ^bore you^ \
before we knew what had happened? Shortly after ~~came~~ Jivaji ^came^ \
to tell us ~~how~~ he ~~was~~ ^had been^ waylaid and captured ~~on his way to the~~ \
~~wedding~~ by a Mussulman noble of the Vijapur court. ~~On t~~ ^T^hat \
night Jivaji and I touched the nuptial fire and swore bloody \
death to this villain. After ^waiting^ long ~~waiting~~ we have been freed \
~~at last of~~ ^from^ our solemn pledge tonight, and the spirit of Jivaji, \
who lost his life in this battle, ~~still~~ lawfully claims you ~~as~~ \
^for^ ~~his~~ wife.

2.
