# MS 782/3

[F 51]

~~songs as she goes~~ on her errand of ceaseless service ^and croons a simple song.^

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But, friend, let me also remind you that you had another \
companion whose thoughts were vainly busy to make you forget \
~~all the trouble of~~ an exile^'s cares^. 

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Her~~ ^The^ memory ^of her^ has become a part of my life. 

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I re~~member~~ ^call^ the day ~~wh~~en ^little more than a boy^ you first ~~came~~ ^arrived^, ~~almost a boy ^with^~~ \
~~with a flower chain on your neck and ^with^~~ ~~a smile in your eyes~~ \
You stood there, near the hedge of the ~~flower~~ garden, - ^a smile in your eyes^. 

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And I saw you gathering flowers, clad in white, like the \
dawn bathed in ~~its own~~ radiance. And I said 'Make me proud \
by allowing me to help you'

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I asked in surprise who you were, and you meekly
answered \
~~me saying~~ that you were the son of Vrihaspati, ~~the~~ ^a ^divine sage \
~~in~~ ^at^ the court of the God Indra, - and ~~your~~ desire^d^ ~~was~~ to learn \
from my father th~~e~~^at^ secret spell which ~~could~~ ^can^ revive the dead. 

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I ~~was afraid~~ ^feared^ lest the Master, the teacher of the Titans, \
th~~e~~^ose^ rivals of the Gods, - should refuse to accept me ~~as his~~ ^for a^ \
disciple. 

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But he could not refuse me when I pleaded your cause, ~~for~~ \
^so^ ~~exceeding~~ great^ly^ ~~?was~~ ~~his~~ ^he^ love^s^ ~~for~~ his daughter. 

Kacha. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~And~~ ~~t~~^T^hrice ~~I~~ had ~~been killed by~~ the jealous Titan ~~and~~ ^slain me, and thrice^ \
~~it was~~ you ~~who~~ prevailed ~~up~~on your father to bring me back to \
life. ~~I shall ever remember it with undying grtitude.~~ ^therefore my gratitude can never die. 

Devayani. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gratitude! Forget ~~it~~ ^all^; ~~and~~ I shall ~~never~~ ^not^ grieve. ~~Have~~ ^Do^

3.
