# MS 782/3

[F 261]

-3-

my house in my old age, love for whom, like a sudden untimely \
flood, swept consideration for everything else from my life. \
He hid me completely, as a lotus hides its stem. The neglected \
duties of a king piled up in shame before my throne. One day, \
in my audience hall, I heard my child cry from his mother's \
room, and instantly rushed away, vacating my throne. 

Ritvik. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just then, it chanced, I entered the hall to give him my \
daily benediction; in blind haste he brushed me aside and en- \
kindled my anger. When later he came back, shame-faced, I asked \
him: - "King, what desperate alarm could draw you at the busiest \
hour of the day to the woman's apartments, so as to desert your \
dignity and duty - ambassadors come from friendly courts, the \
aggrieved who ask for justice, your ministers waiting to discuss \
matters of grave import^?^ and even lead you to slight a Brahmin's \
blessing^?^

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At first my heart flamed with anger; the next moment I \
trampled it down like the raised head of a snake and meekly \
replied:- "Having only one child^,^ I have lost my peace of mind. \
Forgive me this once, and I promise that in future the father's \
infatuation shall never usurp the King."

Ritvik. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But my heart was bitter with resentment, and I said:- \
"If you must be delivered from the curse of having only one \
child, I can show you the way. But so hard is it that I feel
