# MS 782/3

[F 83]

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Are you indeed a true wife?

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yes.

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Do you know how to die without flinching? 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Yes,~~ I do. 

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Then let the funeral fire be lighted for you. See, there \
lies the body of your husband ~~on the battlefield~~. 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Jivaji? 

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Yes, Jivaji ~~himself~~. He was ~~already~~ your husband, by \
~~your~~ plighted troth ~~before he died~~. The baffled fire of the \
nuptial God has ~~grown~~ ^raged^ into the hungry fire of death, and the \
interrupted wedding shall be completed now.

Vinayaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Do not listen^,^ ~~to that~~ my child. Go back to your ~~n~~^s^on ~~in~~ \
~~safety~~, to your own nest darkened with sorrow. ~~I have done~~ \
~~m~~^M^y duty ~~to~~ ^has been performed to^ its extreme cruel end, and nothing now remains for \
you to do ~~...~~ ^-^ ^Wife^, ~~Y~~^y^our grief, ~~my wife,~~ is fruitless. ~~If the~~ \
^Were^ ^the^ branch ~~were~~ dead ~~,~~ which was violently snapped ~~away~~ from our \
tree, I should give it to the fire. But it has sent ~~its~~ living \
roots into a new soil and is bearing flowers and fruits. Allow \
her, without regret, to ~~accept~~ ^obey^ ~~her~~ ^the^ laws ~~from~~ ^of^ ~~the place where~~ ^those^ \
^among whom^ she has ~~her~~ love^d^. Come, wife, it is time ~~for us to~~ ^we^ cut all \
wordly ties and spend ~~the rest of~~ our ~~life~~ ^remainder lives^ in the seclusion of \
some peaceful pilgrim shrine.

4. \
[pencil note] \
thus \
to obey the laws of those among whom she has loved
