# MS 782/3

[F 168]

~~19.~~ ^20^
I \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Right hand page?]"Why these preparations without end?" - I said to Mind - \
"Is someone to come?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mind replied, "I am enormously busy gathering things and \
building towers. I have no time to answer such questions". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Meekly I went back to my work. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When things were grown to a pile, when seven wings of his \
palace were complete I said to Mind, "Is it not enough?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mind began to say, "Not enough to contain-" and then \
stopped. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Contain what?" I asked. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mind affected not to hear. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I suspected that Mind did not know, and with caseless \
work smothered the question. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;His one refrain was, "I must have more". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Why must you?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Because it is great". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"What is great?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mind remained silent. I pressed for an answer. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In contempt and anger, Mind said, "Why ask about things \
that are not? Take notice of those that are hugely before \
you, - the struggle and the fight, the army and armaments, the \
bricks and mortar, and labourers without number". \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I thought ^,^ ~~p~~^P^ossibly Mind is wise.

II. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Days passed. More wings were added to his palace - more
