# MS 782/3

[F 80]

Night on the battlefield. Ama ~~and~~ ^meets^ her father Vinyaka. 

Ama. \
Father! 

Vinayaka. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~'Father' you call ~~ed~~ me, shameless wanton, who~~ ^Shameless wanton, you call me "Father"! you who^ did not \
shrink ~~to call~~ ^from^ a Mussulman ^,^ ~~your~~ husband! 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Though you ^have^ treacherously killed my husband ~~in battle~~, yet \
you are my father, and I ~~withhold my~~ ^hold back a^ widow's tears lest they \
~~should~~ bring God's curse ~~up~~on you. ~~after years of separation~~ \
^Since^ we have met on this battlefield ^after years of separation^, ~~and now~~ let me bow to your feet \
and take my last leave.

Vinayaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Where will you go, Ama? The tree on which you built your \
impious nest is ~~stricken at the root~~ ^hewn down^. ~~Then~~ ~~w~~^W^here will you [underlined] \
take shelter? 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I have my son. 

Vinayaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Leave him. ~~Do not fondly look~~ ^Cast never a fond look^ back on the ~~remnants~~ ^result^ of ^a^\
~~your~~ sin ~~which has been~~ expiated with blood. Think where ~~you~~ \
^to^ ~~must~~ go. 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~There is~~ ~~d~~^D^eath^'s^ ~~whose~~ open gates are wider than a father's \
love!

Vinayaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Death ~~?~~ ~~I~~^i^ndeed^,^ ~~it~~ swallows sins as the sea swallows ~~all~~ \
the mud ~~from~~ ^of^ ~~the~~ river^s^. But ~~death is not for you~~ ^you die niether^ tonight, nor \
here. ~~Come into the solitude of some holy shrine of Shiva~~, ^Seek some solitary shrine of holy Shiva^

1.
