# MS 782/3

[F 93]

~~judgement from~~ your ~~own~~ son to save yourself pain, then all the \
culprits ever punished ~~at~~ ^by^ your hands will cry ^before God's throne^ for vengeance \
~~against~~ ~~you at God's throne~~ - ~~for~~ had they not also their \
father? 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No more of this, Queen, I pray you. Our son is ~~renounced~~ ^abandoned^ ~~by~~ ^of^ God^,^ ~~and~~ that is why I cannot ~~renounce~~ ^give^ him ^up^. To save him is no \
longer in my power, and therefore my consolation is to share his \
guilt and ~~to go down~~ ^tread^ the path of destruction ~~with him~~ ^-^ his \
solitary companion. What ~~has been done is done, and~~ ^is done is done^,^ let follow^ what must \
follow ~~, let follow.~~ (Exit) 

Gandhari. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Be calm, my heart, and patiently ^a^wait ~~for~~ God's judgement. \
~~The o~~ ^O^blivious night wears on, the morning of reckoning ~~comes~~ ^nears^, \
~~and time wakes up to mend its rents.~~ ^I hear^ ~~T~~^t^he thundering roar of its \
chariot ~~chariot I can hear~~. ^-^ Woman, bow your head down to the dust, and \
~~for your~~ ^as a^ sacrifice fling ~~on its way~~ your heart ~~to be trampled~~ \
under ~~its~~ ^those^ wheels. ~~And then the~~ ~~d~~^D^arkness will shroud the sky, \
~~the~~ earth will tremble, ~~and a~~ wailing ~~will~~ rend the air ^,^ ~~A~~^a^nd \
then ~~will~~ come^s^ the ~~end~~ silent and cruel ^end^, ~~the~~ ^that^ terrible peace, \
~~and a~~ ^that^ great forgetting, ~~the~~ ^and^ awful extinction of hatred ~~.~~ ^-^ the \
supreme deliverance rising from the fire of death.
