# MS 782/3

[F 84]

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am ready. But ~~before that I~~ ^first^ must tread into dust ~~all the~~ ^every^ \
sprout~~s~~ of sin and shame that ha~~ve~~^s^ ~~come out~~ ^sprung^ from the soil of \
our ~~own~~ life. ~~For~~ ^A^ daughter's infamy stains ~~the honour of~~ \
~~the~~ ^her^ mother^'s^ ~~herself~~ ^honour^. ~~I will burn~~ ~~t~~^T^hat black shame ~~into a glowing~~ \
^shall feed glowing^ fire to-night and raise a true wife's ~~undying~~ memorial over the \
ashes of my daughter. 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mother, if by force you unite me in death ~~'s last rite~~ with \
one who was not my husband, then ~~you~~ ~~sha~~^wi^ll ^you^ bring a curse upon \
yourself \
for desecrating the shrine of the Eternal Lord of Death.

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Soldiers, light the fire^;^ ~~and~~ surround the woman! 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Father! 

Vinayaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Do not fear. ~~But a~~^A^las, my child, that you should ever \
have to call your father to save you from your ~~own~~ mother's hands! 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Father! 

Vinayaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Come to me, my darling child! Mere vanity are these, \
man- made laws, ~~pelting their~~ ~~^spout^~~  ^splashing like^ spray against the rock of heaven's \
ordinance. Bring your son to me, and we ~~shall~~ ^will^ live together, \
my daughter. A father's love^,^ ~~is~~ like God's ~~own~~ rain ~~. It~~ ^,^ does \
not judge, ^but^ ~~it~~ ^is^ pour~~s~~^ed^ ~~itself out of its abundance~~ ^forth from an abounding source^. 

Rama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Where ~~do~~ ^would^ you go? Turn back! ~~......~~ ^-^ Soldiers, stand \
firm in \
your loyalty to your master, Jivaji, ~~and~~ do your last \
sacred duty \
by him. 

Ama. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Father!
