# MS 782/3

[F 122]

On the road to Heaven. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The shade of King Somaka, ~~being borne~~ ^faring^ to heaven, in a \
chariot; ~~and the~~ ^passes other^ shades ^by the road- \
side, among them that of Ritvik^, ~~of~~ his former high-priest. ~~Ritvik, and~~ \
~~others by the road-side, among them that of Ritvik~~

A voice. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Where ~~do~~ ^would^ you go, King? 

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Whose voice is that? ~~In t~~ ^T^his turbid air ~~, which~~ is like \
suffocation to the eyes^;^ I cannot see. 

~~A~~ ^The^ voice. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Come down, King! Come down from th~~e~~^at^ chariot ~~carrying you~~ ^bound for^ \
~~to~~ Heaven. 

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Who are you? 

The ~~A~~ voice \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am Ritvik, who, in my earthly life, was your preceptor \
and the chief priest of your house.

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Master, all the tears of the world seem to have become \
vapour to create this realm of vagueness. What make~~s~~ you ~~life~~ \
here? 

Shades. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[pencil] This hell lies hard by the road to heaven whence lights \
glimmer dimly only to prove ~~inaccessible~~ ^unapproachable^. \
Day and night we listen to the heavenly chariot rumbling \
by with travellers for that region of bliss; it drives sleep from \
our eyes and forces them to watch in fruitless jealousy. \
Far below us earth's old forests rustle and her seas chant \
the primal hym of creation: ~~these distand ?~~ they \
sound ~~to ?~~ like the wail of a memory that wanders \
void space in vain.
