# MS 782/3

[F 90]

but those ~~who are~~ born to ~~be kings~~ ^rule^ rely ~~up~~on ~~their~~ power, \
merciless and ~~unburdened by~~ ^unhampered with^ scruples. 

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Your success ~~has brought~~ ^will bring^ down ~~up~~on you a ^loud and angry^ flood of ~~calumny,~~ ^detraction^ \
~~loud and angry.~~ 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~It~~ ^The people^ will take amazingly little time ~~before the people shall~~ ^to learn^ \
~~know~~ that Duryodhana is ~~their~~ king and has ~~the~~ power to crush \
calumny under foot.

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Calumny dies ^of^ wear~~y~~^iness^, dancing on ~~the~~ tongue-tips. Do not \
drive it into ~~the secret shelter of~~ the heart to ~~grow in~~ ^gather^ \
strength. 

Duryodhana. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Unuttered defam~~ing~~^ation^ does not touch a king's dignity. I \
care not if love is refused us, but insolence shall not be borne. \
~~Giving of l~~ ^L^ove depends upon the wi~~sh~~^ll^ of the giver, and the \
poorest of the poor can indulge in such generosity. Let them \
squander it ~~up~~on their pet cats^,^ ~~and their~~ tame dogs, and our \
good cousins the Pandavas, I shall never envy them. ~~The f~~ ^F^ear \
is the tribute I claim for my royal throne. Father, only too \
leniently ~~did~~ you len~~d~~^t^ ~~your~~ ear~~s~~ to those who slanderer^ed^ your sons, \
but if you ^intend^ still ^to^ allow th~~e~~^o^se pious friends of yours to ~~continue~~ \
~~in their~~ revel~~s~~ ~~of~~ ^in^ shrill denunciation at the ~~cost~~ ^expense^ of your \
~~own~~ children, ~~then~~ let us exchange our kingdom for the exile \
of our cousins, and go to the wilderness where happily friends \
are never cheap.

Dhritarashtra. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~If~~ ^Could^ ~~my friends'~~ ^the^ pious warnings ~~could~~ ^of my friends^ lessen my love for \
my sons then we might be saved. But I have dipped my hands \
in the mire of your infamy and lost my sense of ~~good~~ ^goodness. For your sakes^ I \
have heedlessly set fire ~~for your sake~~ to th~~is~~^e^ ancient forest \
of our royal lineage, - so ~~fearful~~ ^dire^ is my love. ~~With you~~ \
~~c~~^C^lasped ~~to my~~ breast ^to breast^ we, like a double meteor, are ^blindly^ plunging \
~~in~~to ^ruin^ ~~a blind downfall~~. Therefore, doubt not ~~in~~ my ~~father's~~ \
love; relax not your embrac~~ing arms~~^e^ till ~~we reach~~ the brink \
of annihilation ^be reached^. Beat your drums of victory, life your banner \
of triumph. In this mad riot of exultant evil, brothers and
