# MS 782/3

[F 227]

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Let the pain ~~?~~ ^glow^ fiercely ~~glowing~~, burst~~ing~~ ^from^ the heart \
and ~~smiling~~ ^beat back^ darkness, need you be afraid? \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The poet says, "Who can buy love without paying its \
price? When you fail to give yourself ~~??~~ you make the \
whole world miserly ~~??~~." 

6. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Eyes ~~?~~ see only dust and earth, but feel ~~^what the heart feels^~~ ~~^look^~~ ~~in~~ with \
~~your~~ ^the^ heart, ~~it is~~ ~~^it ??^~~ ^and know^ pure joy. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~The flowers of~~ delight^s^ blossom ~~^s^~~ on all sides in every \
form, but where is your heart's thread ~~to weave
them?~~ ^to make a wreath of them^ \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My master's flute sounds ~~in~~ ^through^ all things, drawing me \
out of my ~~house in all places,~~ ^lodgings wherever they may be^ and ~~as~~ ^while^ I listen ~~to it at~~ ^I know that^ \
every step I ~~know that I move~~ ^take is^ in my master's ~~??~~ house. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For he is the sea, he is the river that leads to \
the sea, and he is the landing-place. 

7. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Strange ~~are the~~ ways ~~of~~ ^has^ my guest. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;He comes at times when I am unprepared, yet how can \
I refuse him? \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I watch all night with lighted lamp^;^ ~~and~~ he ~~is~~ ^stays^ away; \
when the light goes out and the room is bare he
comes \
claiming his seat, and ~~how~~ can I keep him waiting?
