# MS 782/3

[F 125]

Shades. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ritvik, your presence is a disgrace to hell itself! 

~~Heaven's Messenger~~ ^The Charioteer^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This ^is^ place ~~is~~ no~~t~~ for you, King, nor ~~do~~ ^have^ you ~~^have^~~ ~~merit~~ ^deserved to^ \
~~listening to~~ ^be forced to listen to^ th~~e~~^is^ recital of ~~the~~ ^a^ deed which makes hell shudder \
in pity.

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Messenger,~~ ^Drive off in^ your chariot! ^-^ Brahmin, my place is \
by you in this hell. The gods may forget my sin, but can I \
~~ever~~ forget the last look of agonised surprise ~~in~~ ^on^ my child's \
face when ~~he found out~~ for one terrible moment ~~the betrayal~~ ^he realised^ ~~og~~ ^of^ \
~~his trust by his own father?~~ ^that his own father had betrayed his trust.^

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Enter~~s~~ Dharma, the Judge of Departed Spirits. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;King, Heaven waits for you. 

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No, not for me, I ~~have~~ killed my own child. 

Dharma. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~But~~ your sin has been swept away ~~by its own~~ ^in the^ fury of pain ^it caused you^.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No, ^King^, you must never go ~~alone~~ to ~~your~~ Heaven ^alone^, ~~King~~ and \
thus create a second hell for me, ~~leaving me~~ to burn ~~in a~~ ^both with^ fire \
^and with^ hatred ~~for~~ ^of^ you. Stay here.

Somaka. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Yes~~, I ~~shall~~ ^will^ stay. 

Shades. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~And deliver hell from the ingloriousness of its \
suffering, crowning its despair with the triumph of soul.~~ 
^and crown the despair and inglorious suffering \
of hell with the triumph of a soul. 

-----------

4.
