# MS 782/3

[F 288]

KUNTI \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Before them all! 

KARNA\
What right have I to accept? 

KUNTI \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The right all have \
To their own mother's love. 

KARNA \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Augmenting dusk \
Subdues earth, silence weighs the waters down \
Thy voice draws me apart, bids fade afar \
These neighbour camps and river, and lo! I grope \
Through that first world I knew, and recollect \
So sparely, for some clue to thy late speech. \
[pencil notes on side] In vain^!^ - yet come thou nearer; rumour runs \
I was picked up, deserted of some woman, \
And oft in sleep I dream she cloaked stands close \
Beside me, but^,^ when I cry 'Part thy veil! \
Let me but view that face!'she is not there; \
For I have waked myself. Art thou that dream \
Come before sleep? \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lamps light on the far bank; \
In thy son's tents; behold against the north, \
Behind us, ^my Kauravas' lath-built domes,^ \
Like swollen waves, heaved up on a black sea, \
Are movelessly suspended. This dread hush \
Precede ~~ss~~ tomorrow's battle and herein \
Thy voice asserts thou art Arjuna's mother^:^ \
Yet all but sobs with knowledge of what woman \
Gave birth to me, nay, why should that word 'son' \
Cling fondly to thy tongue, if I and he \
Were not born brothers? My heart goes out to him \
No longer challengeful, but full of wonder \
How he may look seen through a brother's eyes. 

KUNTI \
(Rising) \
Delay not; come at once, my son, with me. 

KARNA \
(Rising) \
Yea, I will come, my soul answers this call; \
-3-
