# MS 782/3

[F 150]

~~9.~~ ^10^ \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;neither mother nor daughter are you, nor bride, Urvashi. [^1] \
Woman you are, to ravish the soul of paradise. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When weary-footed evening comes down to the folds whither \
the cattle have returned, you never trim the house lamps nor \
walk to the bridal bed with a tremulous heart and a wavering \
smile on your lips^,^ glad that the dark hours are so secret. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Like the dawn you are without veil, Urvashi, and without \
shame. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Who can imagine that aching overflow of splendour which \
created you! \
[^2] \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You rose from the churned ocean on the first day of the first
spring^,^ with the cup of life in your right hand and poison \
in your left. The monster sea, lulled like an enchanted \
snake, laid down its thousand hoods at your feet. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Your unblemished radiance rose from the foam^,^ white and \
naked as a jasmine. 
[^3]
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Were you ever small, timid or in bud, Urvashi, O Youth \
everlasting? \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Did you sleep, cradled in the deep blue night where the \
strange light of gems plays over coral, shells and moving \
creatures of dreamlike form, till day revealed ~~an~~ ^your^ awful ful~~l~~- \
ness of bloom? 
[^1]: The dancing girl of Paradise who rose from the sea.
[^2]: pencil note: line + -11 
[^3]: pencil note: line
