# MS 782/3

[F 56]

3. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I remember the day. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The heavy shower of rain ~~is~~ ^was^ slackening into fitful \
pauses ~~and~~ ^renewed^ gusts of wind ~~are startling~~ ^startle^ it from ~~the~~ ^a first^ lull. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I take up my instrument. Idly I touch the strings, \
till, without my knowing, the music borrows the mad cadence \
of ~~the~~ ^that^ storm. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I see her figure as she steals ~~?~~ from her work, \
stops at my door, and ~~goes back~~ ^retreats^ with hesitating steps. \
She comes again, stands outside leaning ~~on~~ ^against^ the wall, ~~and~~ ^then^ \
slowly enters the room and sits down. With ~~her~~ head bent, \
she plies her needle in silence^;^ ~~when she~~ ^but soon^ stops her work, \
and looks out of the \
window, through the rain, at the blurred \
line~~s~~ of trees. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Only this - ~~an~~ ^one^ hour of a rainy noon filled with \
shadows and song and silence.

~~3.~~ ^4^
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;While stepping  into the carriage she ^turned her head^ 
slightly ~~?~~ ^and^ \
~~her head throwing~~ ^threw me^ a swift glance of farewell. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This ~~glare~~ was her last gift to me. But where ~~am~~ ^can^ I \
~~to~~ keep it safe from the trampling ~~tread of~~ hours? \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Should this~~ ^Must evening sweep this^ gleam of anguish ~~he swept~~ away ~~by the evening~~, \
~~Which sweeps away~~ ^as it will^ the last flicker of fire from the sunset? \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Should it~~ ^Ought it to^ be washed off by the rain, ~~which washes away~~ \
~~the~~ ^as^ secret pollens ^are^ from ~~the~~ heart-~~break of~~ ^broken^ flowers? \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~Let kings~~ ^Leave kingly^ glory and the wealth of the rich ~~be~~ for \
death. But ~~have~~ ^may^ not tears ~~the power to~~ keep ever fresh the \
memory of a glance flung through a passionate moment? \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"Give it to me to keep," said my song, "I never \
touch kings' glory or the wealth of the rich, but these \
small things are mine for ever."
