MS.782/2
[CM.21] The Merchant. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Imagine, mother, that you ~~will~~ ^are^ ^to^ stay at home \
and I ~~shall~~ ^am^ ^to^ travel into strange lands. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Imagine that my boat is ready at the landing \
fully laden. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now think well, mother, before you say \
what ?? I shall bring for you when I come back. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mother, do you want ~~gold~~ heaps and heaps ^of^ ^gold^? 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There, by the banks of golden streams, fields \
are full of golden harvest. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And in the shade of the forest path the \
golden champa flowers drop on the ground. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I shall gather them all for you in many \
hundred baskets. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mother, do you want pearls big as the \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;rain-drops of autumn? 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I shall cross to the pearl island shore. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There in the early morning light pearls \
tremble on the meadow flowers, pearls drop on \
the grass, and pearls are scattered on the \
sand in spray by the wild seawaves. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My brother ~~will~~ ^shall^ have ~~from me~~ a pair of \
horses with wings to fly into the clouds. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For ~~my~~ father I shall bring a magic pen \
that writes ~~what he does not know himself~~ ^of^ ^itself^ ^without^ ^his^ ^knowledge^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For you, mother, I must have the casket ^and^ ^jewel^ \
~~of the gem~~ that cost seven kings their king-
doms.
