MS.782/2 [THE HERO] CM.28 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Mother, let us imagine we are travelling \
and passing through a strange and dangerous \
countr~~ies~~^y^. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You are riding in a palanquin and I am \
trotting by you on a red horse. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It is evening and the sun goes down. The \
heath of Joradighi lies wan and grey before \
us. The land is desolate and barren. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You are frightened and thinking - "I know \
not where we have come to." \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I say to you, "Mother, do not be afraid." \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The meadow is prickly with spiky grass \
and through it runs a narrow broken path. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There are no cattle to be seen in the \
wide field, they have gone to their village \
stalls. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It grows dark and dim on the land and sky \
and we cannot tell where we are going. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Suddenly you call me and ask me in a \
whisper, "What light is that near the bank?" \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just then there bursts a fearful yell and \
figures come running toward us. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You sit crouched in your palanquin and \
repeat the names of ^the^ gods in prayer. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The bearers, shaking in terror, hide \
themselves in the thorny bush. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I shout to you, "Never fear, mother, I am \
by your side." \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;With long sticks in their hands and hair \
all wild about their heads they come nearer \
and nearer. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I shout, "Take care villains! One step \
more and you are dead men." \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;They give another terrible yell and \
rush forward. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You clutch my hand and say, "Dear boy, \
for heaven's sake, keep away from them." \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I say, "Mother, just watch me." \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Then I sp~~ea~~^u^r my horse for a wild gallop \
and my sword and buckle~~t~~^r^ clash against \
each other. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The fight becomes so fearful, mother, \
that it would give you a cold shudder could \
you see it from your palanquin.
